Now that we've built our standalone app for focus time and we're technically ready to release the prime
time, there's one more thing we need to do on the Google side.
We need a developer account.
And so when we choose to create a developer account, the Google account will be the developer account
that's trying to join the developer pool.
Right.
So if you are in an organization, do not use a personal account, but in this case, this would be
your personal Gmail or just email in general.
Now, a developer account, you'll need to pay a one time twenty five dollars registration fee.
So there are costs linked to deploying to the app and the play store on the Google Play store.
It's a twenty five dollar registration fee for your app account and they'll ask you for ID verification
for your account registration.
So there's more work that goes into actually getting your app ready for the prime time and all of the
work that goes into setting up your developer account and making sure that everything is good to go.
Now, if they can't verify your identity, your registration fee won't be refunded, so you have to
make sure that you give them real information.
Now, first, you need to choose your public developer name.
I can choose McGeeney.
They'll choose for a contact email address, a contact phone number.
They'll ask you to confirm all of these fields and then they'll ask you to create the account and pay.
So once you go through that, what you'll see after that is and I'll go through the registration steps
and I'll show you what comes after.
Once you go through the process of registering, they'll create a developer account for you and then
you can say go to the play console.
Now, once you're on the play console, it'll show you how to publish and manage apps.
It'll show you a short video introduction of everything you need to go through in order to do this.
And you can go next, next, next.
And you can say use the play console.
And so over here, we're in the Google Play console.
This is where we can create an app for release.
And if we say create app, we can give the app the name meals to go.
We'll say it's an English app.
We'll say publish it as an app.
It's a free app.
We can say confirm that it means developer policies, US export laws, because it's a very simple app,
will create the app.
And then once we've created the app, now we can go into the management of the meta information for
the app, set up the app for you, the tasks.
There's all types of things that we need to do in order to get our app ready for launch.
And so, as you can see, there's a bunch of tasks that we need to go through in order to get to the
step at which we can actually upload our SDK and get it into the App Store.
So in order for us to publish to the Google app and play store, we need to go from building that binary
into the Google Play console and create our app and go through the task of filling in all of this information.
And once we filled in all of this information, uploaded the app, only then will it go into the review
process.
And once it's through the review process, that's when you get a yes or no answer from the Google Play.
People in terms of you can release this, we need this additional requirements to be met.
You're missing these things.
So there's a back and forth here.
There's no easy process to releasing publicly.
And over the years, they've gotten more and more strict, more and more rigorous with all of the things
that they need you to do in order to get your app on the Google Play store.
But here is a quick and simple overview of all of the small scale steps that you need to take in order
to get to this phase where you need to just fill in information, make sure that everything is in the
right order, and then you can release.
Right.
So with that, here's a fast overview of how to get the right pieces in place in order to get to this
place where all you need to do is fill in information in order to go through the release process.
There's no simple way of skipping this, making this go faster.
It's just a process of paperwork at this point that you need to go through.